Good evening and welcome to News at Eight with me, Leon Thomas.
Our main story tonight: Leader of Ankhazastan makes waves with controversial new laws.
Four years after eliminating all opposition and promising reforms, the President of
Ankhazastan, Miki Unjonginiv has introduced a series of hardline new laws and policies.
For starters, he has placed all national media under the direct control of the President’s office.
Previously, any criticism of the ruler was extremely rare,
but now the media is in the iron grip of the dictator.
Secondly, he has made it illegal for any citizen to own assets over one million dollars
in value – and any “excess wealth” must be immediately handed over to the government.
In practice, this will only affect a tiny minority of the population in this
impoverished nation that the US President referred to last month as a banana republic.
What about Miki himself?
Although he lives a life of incredible luxury and privilege, technically
all of his money and assets belong to the state of Ankhazastan.
Miki claims to be virtually penniless.
Finally, in a move that will anger Western progressives,
Miki has banned all LGBT and environmentalist movements.
Simply wearing a t-shirt bearing a rainbow flag will now land you
in Ankhazastan’s infamous Borokiv prison for at least five years.
I asked regional expert Sally Orlov why the sudden harsh new laws.
“Hi Leon, thanks for having me on your show.
“Four years ago, Miki allowed Internet access in Ankhazastan for the first time.
For many people, this was a game changer.
For the first time, they were exposed to outside ideas and opinions.
As the Internet has become more advanced, websites have popped up
criticising the Ankhaz government and especially its leader, Miki.
“These new laws are basically a knee-jerk reaction to people
forming opinions that the government doesn’t want them to have.”
“ I see.
And Sally, do people in Ankhazastan still have access
to the Internet, or has that been restricted, too.”
“Nobody knows, Leon.
Foreign reporters are not allowed into Ankhazastan and the
government is in strict control of any information coming out.
We suspect that the Internet is now censored… but nobody
really has any idea what is happening over there.”